and Mona went on to be with the Lord and
this more or less broke
up the sand and home they were just they
just almost beside themselves and they
decided to go to
Montana and take a homestead the same as
my father
did in Forbes only all of South Dakota
was taken and the only open homesteads
were in Montana and so he got a section
of ground in Montana and he wanted
Merl and
myself and him and my sister ruy to go
with us and take ruie was supposed to
drive a model te Ford that was that's a
that was the first Model T Ford that was
ever built my dad had had a brush one
cylinder brush with wooden axles that
looked like a buy I've got several
pictures of a chain drive he got 15
miles an hour is full speed when You'
get the thing in gear and get it across
the line the motor was one cylinder 15 M
an hour you could run and keep up with
it but now Henry Ford had come out with
a Model
T a brass rigid
radiator a windshield straight up and
down brass
headlights in the carbide tank on the
running
board I don't know if you know what
carbide is but it's some kind of a a
stone looking something that when you
drop water on it it boils and puts off a
gas and this gas is generated in
a heavy bottle something like a
gas bottle that's used now only this one
was a
carbide bottle and when you had to when
you open the valve on the water tank it
let this water drip on the carbide the
carbide generated a gas and the gas went
into a little tube up into the
headlights then you'd have to stand
there after you opened you'd stand there
with a match waiting for the gas to get
up to the headlights you'd open the
doors on the front of the headlights and
hold them match there until the gas come
then you'd light the gas then you'd open
the other one on the other side light it
then the way you'd shut them off you
just shut off the water from dripping on
the carbide that's what they called
carbide headlights and this is the and
it was brass hub caps and just a little
round Hub Cap about 2 in in uh diameter
maybe maybe 4 in in circumference and
they were polished brass and they had
just what they called Clincher tires
3-in Clincher tires the fenders stuck
out straight in the back and straight in
the front and there's a hexagon shaped
top on the radiator and two leather
straps went back to from the front of
the frame of the car two leather straps
back to the
top that keeps the top from flying
backwards when you and I guess the top
speed for that was probably 25 30 m an
hour and you had three bands in there
and you had when your low band would
wear out you'd have to I mean when your
breake banded wear out you'd have to use
your lower your reverse for your break
at three drums and I remember what a
problem it was to change the bands on a
Model te it all had to be done through a
little hole on the top of the
transmission so many many times I've had
to change the bands stop on the road you
have an extra set of bands with you and
you have a ribet machine a hammer and a
ribet machine you take the cover off and
you loosen the nuts be careful you don't
drop the nut down in the
chamber because that was a Calamity you
put some kind of Rags down around there
so that if you did drop the nut you
couldn't get it down into the oil
chamber then you'd pull these bands out
one at a time reline them and put them
back in it was a half a day's work but
often times you had to do it before you
could get back home many times onto
Florida when we were driving back and
forth to see my folks down in Florida
we've had to pull over to the side of
the road and change the bands I remember
the first time it happened was it nor up
in North
Florida I I forget the high white E
White Springs or High Springs or
something like that up near lioke up way
up in Northern Florida we had to we
stayed there with our tent overnight and
I had to change the bands before we
could go on